---
title: Waveseek
date: 2025-07-23
authors:
  - name: HX2003
    link: https://github.com/HX2003
    image: https://github.com/HX2003.png
tags:
  - Javascript
  - WebGPU
---
A GPU accelerated waveform viewer for oscilloscope traces that can be easily embedded into any web page using an `<iframe>`.

> [!NOTE]
> The viewer below is fully interactive.

<br>
<iframe 
  src="/Waveseek/src/waveseek.html?dataURL=/Waveseek/examples/Example Project.waveseek"
  style="width: 100%; aspect-ratio: 18 / 9; border: none;">
</iframe>
<br>

## Guide to user interface
To import new waveforms, click `File->Add Waveform from Siglent CSV` (Only Siglent CSV's are supported at this time).

To save the project for future use, click `File->Export Project` to export a .waveseek file.

To open a saved project, choose one of the following:
  - `File → Open Project from File` to load a local `.waveseek` file.
  - `File → Open Project from URL` to load a `.waveseek` file hosted online.

## Technical details
### Frontend
- The interface is built using standard **HTML**, **CSS**, and **JavaScript**, with no frameworks.
- **[Shoelace](https://shoelace.style/)** web components are used for UI elements such as buttons, dialogs, and dropdowns. These are lightweight, accessible, and framework-agnostic.
- The waveform viewer is rendered using custom GPU shaders via WebGPU, enabling high-performance rendering of large waveform datasets with smooth zooming and panning.
- DOM interaction and layout management are handled manually using vanilla JavaScript.

### How the project is saved
The `.waveseek` file is based on the **RIFF** (Resource Interchange File Format) specification.

Each file begins with a standard RIFF header and has the following structure:
```
RIFF ('wask '
    CHUNK ('cfgs' (project configuration JSON)),
    LIST ('wavs' (list of individual waveforms),
        LIST ('wave' (waveform),
            CHUNK ('cfgs' (waveform configuration JSON)),
            CHUNK ('wavd' (waveform binary data))
        ),
        LIST ('wave' (waveform),
            CHUNK ('cfgs' (waveform configuration JSON)),
            CHUNK ('wavd' (waveform binary data))
        ),
        ...
     )
)
```